# Contributing to SMA-X


_SMA-X_ is for everyone. And, it is developers like you who can make it better. Whether there is a nagging issue you 
would like to fix, or a new feature you'd like to see, you can make a difference yourself. Make this project a little 
bit your own, by submitting pull requests with fixes and enhancement. When you are ready, here are the typical steps 
for contributing to the project:

1. If you have an issue with one of the components or you would like to contribute to one one the submodules, please 
go to their respective component repositories and follow the contributor guides therein. If your issue, question, or
intent to contribute relates to the overall _SMA-X_ design and architecture, or this meta repository, read on.

2. Old or new __Issue__? Whether you just found a bug, or you are missing a much needed feature, start by checking 
open (and closed) [Issues](https://github.com/Smithsonian/smax/issues). If an existing issue seems like a 
good match to yours, feel free to speak up, comment, or to offer help in resolving it. If you find no issues that 
match, go ahead and create a new one.

2. __Fork__. Is it something you'd like to help resolve? Great! You should start by creating your own fork of the 
repository so you can work freely on your solution. I recommend that you place your work on a branch of your fork, 
which is named either after the issue number, e.g. `issue-192`, or some other descriptive name, such as 
`killer-new-feature`.

3. __Develop__. Experiment on your fork/branch freely. If you run into a dead-end, you can always abandon it (which is 
why branches are great) and start anew. You can run `make all` to ensure that all components are in order. Remember to 
synchronize your `main` branch by fetching changes from upstream every once in a while, and merging them into your 
development branch. Don't forget to:

4. __Pull Request__. Once you feel your work can be integrated, create a pull request from your fork/branch. You can 
do that easily from the github page of your fork/branch directly. In the pull request, provide a concise description 
of what you added or changed. Your pull request will be reviewed. You may get some feedback at this point, and maybe 
there will be discussions about possible improvements or regressions etc. It's a good thing too, and your changes will 
likely end up with added polish as a result. You can be all the more proud of it in the end!

5. If all goes well, your pull-request will get merged, and will be included in the upcoming release of _smax_. 
Congratulations for your excellent work, and many thanks for dedicating some of your time for making _SMA-X_ a little 
bit better. There will be many who will appreciate it. :-)


If at any point you have questions, or need feedback, don't be afraid to ask. You can put your questions into the 
issue you found or created, or your pull-request, or as a Q&amp;A in 
[Discussions](https://github.com/Smithsonian/smax-postgres/discussions).


